README.md, before:

Introduction
============

`rq-dashboard` is a general purpose, lightweight,
[Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/)-based web front-end to monitor your
[RQ](http://python-rq.org/) queues, jobs, and workers in realtime.

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/Parallels/rq-dashboard.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Parallels/rq-dashboard)
[![Python
Support](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/rq-dashboard.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rq-dashboard)
![PyPI Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dw/rq-dashboard)

Maturity notes
--------------

The RQ dashboard is currently being developed and is in beta stage.

Installing with Docker
----------------------

You can also run the dashboard inside of docker:

``` {.console}
$ docker pull eoranged/rq-dashboard
$ docker run -p 9181:9181 eoranged/rq-dashboard
```

and you can then run the image. You can pass additional options using
environment variables with prefix `RQ_DASHBOARD_*`:

    - RQ_DASHBOARD_REDIS_URL=redis://<redis:6379>
    - RQ_DASHBOARD_USERNAME=rq
    - RQ_DASHBOARD_PASSWORD=password

See more info on how to pass environment variables in [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#set-environment-variables--e---env---env-file)

Installing from PyPI
--------------------

``` {.console}
$ pip install rq-dashboard
```

Running the dashboard
---------------------

Run the dashboard standalone, like this:

``` {.console}
$ rq-dashboard
* Running on http://127.0.0.1:9181/
...
```

``` {.console}
$ rq-dashboard --help
Usage: rq-dashboard [OPTIONS]

  Run the RQ Dashboard Flask server.

  All configuration can be set on the command line or through environment
  variables of the form RQ_DASHBOARD_*. For example RQ_DASHBOARD_USERNAME.

  A subset of the configuration (the configuration parameters used by the
  underlying flask blueprint) can also be provided in a Python module
  referenced using --config, or with a .cfg file referenced by the
  RQ_DASHBOARD_SETTINGS environment variable.

Options:
  -b, --bind TEXT                 IP or hostname on which to bind HTTP server
  -p, --port INTEGER              Port on which to bind HTTP server
  --url-prefix TEXT               URL prefix e.g. for use behind a reverse
                                  proxy
  --username TEXT                 HTTP Basic Auth username (not used if not
                                  set)
  --password TEXT                 HTTP Basic Auth password
  -c, --config TEXT               Configuration file (Python module on search
                                  path)
  -u, --redis-url TEXT            Redis URL. Can be specified multiple times.
                                  Default: redis://127.0.0.1:6379
  --poll-interval, --interval INTEGER
                                  Refresh interval in ms
  --extra-path TEXT               Append specified directories to sys.path
  --debug / --normal              Enter DEBUG mode
  -v, --verbose                   Enable verbose logging
  --help                          Show this message and exit.
```

Integrating the dashboard in your Flask app
-------------------------------------------

The dashboard can be integrated in to your own [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) app by accessing the blueprint directly in the normal way, e.g.:

``` {.python}
from flask import Flask
import rq_dashboard

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object(rq_dashboard.default_settings)
app.register_blueprint(rq_dashboard.blueprint, url_prefix="/rq")

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run()
```

If you start the Flask app on the default port, you can access the
dashboard at <http://localhost:5000/rq>. The `cli.py:main` entry point
provides a simple working example.

Running on Heroku
-----------------

Consider using third-party project
[rq-dashboard-on-heroku](https://github.com/metabolize/rq-dashboard-on-heroku),
which installs rq-dashboard from PyPI and wraps in in
[Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org) for deployment to Heroku.
rq-dashboard-on-heroku is maintained indepdently.

Running behind a Reverse Proxy
-------------------------------
You can run the dashboard as a `systemd` service in Linux or via a `suprevisor`
script and then use Apache or NGINX to direct traffic to the dashboard.

_This is for *non-production* functionality!_

Apache Reverse Proxy example:
```
ProxyPass /rq http://127.0.0.1:5001/rq
ProxyPassReverse /rq http://127.0.0.1:5001/rq
```

Systemd service example:
```
[Unit]
Description=Redis Queue Dashboard
[Install]

WantedBy=multi-user.target
[Service]
ExecStart=/bin/rq-dashboard -b 127.0.0.1 -p 5001 --url-prefix /rq -c rq_settings_dashboard --debug -v
StandardOutput=file:/var/log/redis/rq-dasbhoard.log
StandardError=file:/var/log/redis/rq-dashboard.log
User=redis-dash
Group=redis-dash
RemainAfterExit=yes
Type=simple
PermissionsStartOnly=false
PrivateTmp=no
```
* `--debug`,`-v` are optional -- they will write `stdout` to your specified files.
* `rq_settings_dashboard` is a Python file, with settings defined. You can use options that are available as environmental variables. (EX. `RQ_DASHBOARD_REDIS_PASSWORD = password`)

Developing
----------

Develop in a virtualenv and make sure you have all the necessary build
time (and run time) dependencies with

    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Develop in the normal way with

    $ python setup.py develop

Stats
-----

-   [PyPI stats](https://pypistats.org/packages/rq-dashboard)
-   [Github stats](https://github.com/Parallels/rq-dashboard/graphs/traffic)

Commit message:

hotfix-15062023-1
- Updated all required dependencies
- fixed some issues with compatibility
- added modern docker-compose to run it from docker

README.md, after:

Introduction
============

`rq-dashboard` is a general purpose, lightweight,
[Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/)-based web front-end to monitor your
[RQ](http://python-rq.org/) queues, jobs, and workers in realtime.

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/Parallels/rq-dashboard.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Parallels/rq-dashboard)
[![Python
Support](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/rq-dashboard.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rq-dashboard)
![PyPI Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dw/rq-dashboard)

Maturity notes
--------------

The RQ dashboard is currently being developed and is in beta stage.

Installing with Docker
----------------------

You can also run the dashboard inside of docker:

* copy the ```docker-compose.yml``` file from the root of the repository to ```docker-compose.override.yml``` and change the environment variables to your liking.
* run the following command:

  ``` {.console}
  $ docker-compose up
  ```

Installing from PyPI
--------------------

``` {.console}
$ pip install rq-dashboard
```

Running the dashboard
---------------------

Run the dashboard standalone, like this:

``` {.console}
$ rq-dashboard
* Running on http://127.0.0.1:9181/
...
```

``` {.console}
$ rq-dashboard --help
Usage: rq-dashboard [OPTIONS]

  Run the RQ Dashboard Flask server.

  All configuration can be set on the command line or through environment
  variables of the form RQ_DASHBOARD_*. For example RQ_DASHBOARD_USERNAME.

  A subset of the configuration (the configuration parameters used by the
  underlying flask blueprint) can also be provided in a Python module
  referenced using --config, or with a .cfg file referenced by the
  RQ_DASHBOARD_SETTINGS environment variable.

Options:
  -b, --bind TEXT                 IP or hostname on which to bind HTTP server
  -p, --port INTEGER              Port on which to bind HTTP server
  --url-prefix TEXT               URL prefix e.g. for use behind a reverse
                                  proxy
  --username TEXT                 HTTP Basic Auth username (not used if not
                                  set)
  --password TEXT                 HTTP Basic Auth password
  -c, --config TEXT               Configuration file (Python module on search
                                  path)
  -u, --redis-url TEXT            Redis URL. Can be specified multiple times.
                                  Default: redis://127.0.0.1:6379
  --poll-interval, --interval INTEGER
                                  Refresh interval in ms
  --extra-path TEXT               Append specified directories to sys.path
  --debug / --normal              Enter DEBUG mode
  -v, --verbose                   Enable verbose logging
  --help                          Show this message and exit.
```

Integrating the dashboard in your Flask app
-------------------------------------------

The dashboard can be integrated in to your own [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) app by accessing the blueprint directly in the normal way, e.g.:

``` {.python}
from flask import Flask
import rq_dashboard

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object(rq_dashboard.default_settings)
app.register_blueprint(rq_dashboard.blueprint, url_prefix="/rq")

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello World!"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run()
```

If you start the Flask app on the default port, you can access the
dashboard at <http://localhost:5000/rq>. The `cli.py:main` entry point
provides a simple working example.

Running on Heroku
-----------------

Consider using third-party project
[rq-dashboard-on-heroku](https://github.com/metabolize/rq-dashboard-on-heroku),
which installs rq-dashboard from PyPI and wraps in in
[Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org) for deployment to Heroku.
rq-dashboard-on-heroku is maintained indepdently.

Running behind a Reverse Proxy
-------------------------------
You can run the dashboard as a `systemd` service in Linux or via a `suprevisor`
script and then use Apache or NGINX to direct traffic to the dashboard.

_This is for *non-production* functionality!_

Apache Reverse Proxy example:
```
ProxyPass /rq http://127.0.0.1:5001/rq
ProxyPassReverse /rq http://127.0.0.1:5001/rq
```

Systemd service example:
```
[Unit]
Description=Redis Queue Dashboard
[Install]

WantedBy=multi-user.target
[Service]
ExecStart=/bin/rq-dashboard -b 127.0.0.1 -p 5001 --url-prefix /rq -c rq_settings_dashboard --debug -v
StandardOutput=file:/var/log/redis/rq-dasbhoard.log
StandardError=file:/var/log/redis/rq-dashboard.log
User=redis-dash
Group=redis-dash
RemainAfterExit=yes
Type=simple
PermissionsStartOnly=false
PrivateTmp=no
```
* `--debug`,`-v` are optional -- they will write `stdout` to your specified files.
* `rq_settings_dashboard` is a Python file, with settings defined. You can use options that are available as environmental variables. (EX. `RQ_DASHBOARD_REDIS_PASSWORD = password`)

Developing
----------

Develop in a virtualenv and make sure you have all the necessary build
time (and run time) dependencies with

    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Develop in the normal way with

    $ python setup.py develop

Stats
-----

-   [PyPI stats](https://pypistats.org/packages/rq-dashboard)
-   [Github stats](https://github.com/Parallels/rq-dashboard/graphs/traffic)
